Add Laravel Deployment Tutorial (#66)
hetzneronline/community-content: tutorials/deploy-laravel-on-hetzner-cloud/en.md

date: "2019-03-08"
title: "Deploy Laravel App on Hetzner Cloud"
short_description: ""
tags: ["hcloud","cloud","laravel","deploy"]
author: "Ahmed Gad"
author_link: "https://github.com/engahmedgad"
author_img: "https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/25646168"
author_description: ""
header_img: ""
---

# Deploying Laravel App on Hetzner Cloud

## Introduction
In this tutorial I'll show you how to deploy laravel application on Hetzner cloud servers

## Step 1 - Create Your first instance
* Login to your Cloud Dashboard from [https://console.hetzner.cloud]
* Create New Project And name it whatever you want
* Choose your server location it's up to you
* Click `Add Server` and select `Ubuntu 18.04` from Image
* Choose the resources you need from type
* Add your local machine SSH Key 
    * You can read [This](https://help.github.com/en/enterprise/2.16/user/articles/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent) article to know how to generate SSH Key
* Write your server hostname in `name` Input
* Click `Create & Buy Now`
 

## Step 2 - login into you server
* Go to servers list in console cloud and copy your server  `IP Address` 

> * Open your  terminal and write ` ssh root@<IP Address>`

Reviewer: You login as root but always use `sudo` below.

Author: I updated this in new pull request #66

Reviewer: You added `$` in front of the commands. The root user has a `#` at the beginning of the bash line. `$` indicates a user.

Author: Fixed

* `sudo mysql_secure_installation` to set your mysql password.
    * the prompt will ask you few question 
        * Would you like to setup VALIDATE PASSWORD plugin? : Y
        * Enter password validation policy : 0
        * New password: `Your Password`
        * Re-enter new password: `Your Password Again`
        * Do you wish to continue with the password provided? : Y
        * Remove anonymous users? : Y
        * Disallow root login remotely? : Y
        * Remove test database and access to it? : Y
        * Reload privilege tables now? : Y     
* `mysql -u root -p` it will ask you for your password if you see `Welcome to the MySQL monitor` then everything is ok

## Step 5 - Install PHP 
* `sudo apt-get install software-properties-common`
* `sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ondrej/php` to add php7.1 repository 
* `sudo apt-get update` to update your package manager
* install php and required extensions 
```
sudo apt-get install php7.1 php7.1-xml php7.1-mbstring php7.1-mysql php7.1-json php7.1-curl php7.1-cli php7.1-common php7.1-mcrypt php7.1-gd libapache2-mod-php7.1 php7.1-zip php7.1-dom
``` 
## Step 6 - Install Composer

> * `sudo apt-get install composer`

Reviewer: You first install PHP from ppa to get a newer version but than install an old composer version? Maybe you can add some lines on how to [get the latest version of composer](https://getcomposer.org/doc/00-intro.md#globally)

Author: I updated this in new pull request #66

---
path: "tutorials/deploy-laravel-on-hetzner-cloud"
date: "2019-03-08"
title: "Deploy Laravel App on Hetzner Cloud"

> short_description: "In this article we well learn how to install LAMP stack on Hetzner cloud server and deploy Laravel app on it"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
short_description: "In this article we will learn how to install a LAMP stack on a Hetzner cloud server and deploy a Laravel app on it"
```

tags: ["Hcloud","Cloud","Laravel","Deploy"]
author: "Ahmed Gad"
author_link: "https://github.com/engahmedgad"
author_img: "https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/25646168"
author_description: ""
header_img: ""
---

# Deploying Laravel app on Hetzner cloud

## Introduction
In this tutorial I'll show you how to deploy Laravel application on Hetzner cloud servers

## Step 1 - Create your first instance
* Login to your cloud dashboard from [https://console.hetzner.cloud]
* Create new project and name it whatever you want
* Choose your server location it's up to you
* Click `Add Server` and select `Ubuntu 18.04` from Image
* Choose the resources you need from Type
* Add your local machine SSH Key 
    * You can read [this](https://help.github.com/en/enterprise/2.16/user/articles/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent) article to know how to generate SSH key
* Write your server hostname in `name` input
* Click `Create & Buy Now`
 

## Step 2 - Login into you server

> * Go to servers list in console cloud and copy your server  `IP Address` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Go to servers list in console cloud and copy your servers IP address (e.g. 10.0.0.1)
```

> * Open your terminal and write `# ssh root@<IP Address>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Open your terminal and write `# ssh root@10.0.0.1`
```

## Step 5 - Install php 
* `# apt-get install software-properties-common`
* `# add-apt-repository ppa:ondrej/php` to add php7.1 repository 
* `# apt-get update` to update your package manager
* Install php and required extensions 
```
# apt-get install php7.1 php7.1-xml php7.1-mbstring php7.1-mysql php7.1-json php7.1-curl php7.1-cli php7.1-common php7.1-mcrypt php7.1-gd libapache2-mod-php7.1 php7.1-zip php7.1-dom
``` 
## Step 6 - Install Composer
* First download Composer installer 
    * `# curl -sS https://getcomposer.org/installer -o composer-setup.php`
* Install Composer globally
    * `# php composer-setup.php --install-dir=/usr/local/bin --filename=composer`
* Now let's verify that is Composer is installed successfully type in your terminal `# composer` if you see something like `Composer version 1.8.4 2019-02-11 10:52:10
` then everything is ok

## Step 7 - Install Laravel project
* `# cd /var/www/html`
* `# composer create-project --prefer-dist laravel/laravel blog "5.6.*"`
* Now let's move the files from `blog/` directory to Apache's root directory `# cd blog/ && mv * ../ && mv .env ../`

> * Go to `http://<IP Address>/public` and you will see your app Live now 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Go to `http://10.0.0.1/public` and you will see your app now
```

Reviewer: Are you sure that `/public` is correct here?
